hey guys if you watch this channel you
know that all my videos are spontaneous
but this one is a little bit extra
spontaneous that's why there's actually
a plate of fruit just in the edge of the
screen there I'm about to go to the gym
and so I have the headphones in um you
know I really want to speak on this
issue if you've watched the channel for
a while you know that I have very often
raised tough questions about comparisons
made between veganism and various
struggles for Human Rights I've raised
questions but whether or not these are
useful comparisons how these guide us in
our activism how they got us politically
philosophically and pragmatically most
comparisons I mean comparisons are
odious as we say most comparisons are
going to be useful and meaningful within
certain limits and then they're going to
become meaningless observed or
counterproductive in others you know
even the argument that you should be
vegan to avoid getting cancer in some
context it's meaningful so I'm get
connor's birthday mode and some context
it just becomes ridiculous you know why
do you refuse to wear leather shoes the
answer can't be because you don't want
to get cancer it can't be at an
hysterical fear of cancer you know
cancer science is relevant to veganism
it is interesting it is rewarding to
know about that stuff but the ethical
and political arguments can't be based
on so in the same way the type of
parallel that people try to construe
between human rights and animal rights
or registering human rights and veganism
make it simple sometimes we're talking
about sometimes it's meaningful and
sometimes it becomes meaningless and if
you watch my earlier videos that
criticize direct action everywhere
you'll see those issues coming up again
and again those questions hard questions
but the limits of that approach and how
this connects to pragmatic questions of
future vegans Paloma I have a quotation
here from the Humane Society the United
States in general all vegans love to
hate the humane society because they're
not vegan enough they're not humane
enough what can I tell you um the Humane
Society said the following when asked by
a mainstream news source to comment on
the contradictions within the free-range
chicken movement so you know these are
Anna
well Ferris movements that slightly
improve or somewhat improve the
conditions of hens that you know are
born to die that live their whole lives
waiting to be executed with a date
marked on the calendar for when their
heads are going to be chopped up when
they're going to lit daya you know a
terrible violent death in order to
provide food for human beings that is
unnecessary and unhealthy these are hens
however so there are various political
movements that instead of trying to
abolish and a black culture instead of
encouraging people to become vegan
instead of taking an echo ecological and
ethical approach to these facts instead
just tries to make their lives more
comfortable for the short time that they
live inside a world of concrete and
steel fences and rooms said so you know
is what it is this is a Fisher that most
vegans feel very strongly about so when
asked about this Humane Society nine
states representative said the following
he says quote with companies like Costco
it is better to welcome them for taking
the first steps rather than punish them
for not taking the last step so he's
saying when you're looking at the
conditions of chickens that are raised
on a factory farm to provide meat for a
large corporation like Costco you should
congratulate costco you should thank
them for taking some of these steps
towards free-range towards more humane
conditions for the chickens rather than
punishing them for failing to live up to
some higher expectations that vegans
might have or that even you know
vegetarians an animal welfare people
might have okay no he's wrong and he's
not ten percent wrong he's one hundred
percent wrong and this is one sense in
which the comparison to human rights is
meaningful in some contexts it's
meaningless in some kind of
counterproductive but in this case we
have to say no when we're talking about
slavery we're not talking about the
working conditions of slaves we're not
talking about matters of degree
difference of degree we're talking about
a matter of principle are you going to
abolish slavery or not when we're
talking about hard issues and human
rights I'd say it but in some countries
do women have the right to drive a car
some of you will know right away which
countries in talk about but there are
some countries where really
women do not have the same human rights
as men women do not have the right to
vote when we do not have the right to
drive a car that you know though the
same rights in a very practical sense as
men we don't congratulate those
countries for taking the first steps on
the contrary we have a very negative and
putative attitude towards them as long
as they are violating any of the
principles of human rights and I've been
on the other side of that debate in the
following sense when you're living in a
country like Cambodia and Cambodia is
not that big a country so you meet
people who are part of the government
you meet people who are representing all
sides the political puzzle um there were
Cambodians who support their own
government there and they'll say to you
look oh we can never satisfy you people
Oh human rights in Cambodia lately
aren't that bad human rights in Cambodia
are better than they were 10 years ago
they're better than they were 30 years
ago or maybe they'll say something like
human rights in Cambodia are better than
they are in Myanmar they're better than
they are in Indonesia or Malaysia why
can't you just be happy with us why
can't you just congratulate us for
taking the steps that we've taken for
the improvement why is it this continual
criticism and dissatisfaction mostly
from Westerners but whatever why is the
human rights people are never satisfied
it's never enough for you people you
never throw us a party you never
congratulate us for doing the positive
things we've done so this is just
totally thankless and you know this this
is parallel to this question with the
Humane Society United States but that is
actually when you can criticize you
complain but that is actually part of
the logic of human rights is that it is
an inflexible minimum standard it's an
argument not for an ideal it's an
argument for a minimum standard and as
long as you're feeling to meet that
minimum standard you don't get any
praise you don't get a fresh election
and I really understand really
sympathize here he's asking us to
sympathize with a corporation like
Costco I can't really sympathize that I
mean whatever costco is making money out
of slaughtering animals I don't have a
lot of sympathy but it's true when I was
inside a country like Laos when I was
inside a country like Cambodia where
there are ongoing Human Rights problems
it is very easy to sympathize the other
side where the dot the
me too saying well come on we have more
democracy than we used to have we have
more freedom of speech than we used to
have human rights you know it's not
perfect but come on it's not perfect in
America why can't you guys just throw us
a party why can't you guys just
celebrate the progress we've made it why
can't you be or conversely they say
we're never going to satisfy you people
anyway so just why should we even look
at listen your criticism right
admittedly that is a strategic
disadvantage of the human rights
approach but when we're talking about
human rights again and this may be a
reason in many contacts not to address
veganism in parallel humans but when we
are talking about human rights or not
talking about the Arts we're not talking
about a beautiful painting when I was
done with the upper limits of human
achievement matter we're not talking
about something where genius and
creativity and something beautiful is
rewarded we are talking about a minimum
standard we're not talking with Sun like
sports we're human excellence and
strength and vitality and you know maybe
some kind of improvised acumen you know
all kinds of talents get rewarded sports
it's not like the Olympics we're
celebrating who gets the gold medal and
who gets the silver medal I've never
even heard of that who gets the bronze
who gets this gold medal human rights
who gets the gold medal and animals our
attention is never focused at the upper
levels of achievement and our attention
is not even focused on doing the best
you can I know people ridicule this in
the sports and in the arts and in music
giving people an award or congratulating
them because you know they gave their
best effort you know maybe you didn't
get the gold medal maybe didn't even get
the bronze medal but you gave it your
best you get you came up somewhere on
that ladder of achievement we all look
at any of that right when we're talking
about human rights we're talking about
minimum standards and anyone who fails
those minimum standards is facing
relentless unending criticism with in a
sense no positive motivation no positive
reward and that is implicitly the Fisher
at the basis here that separates the
Humane Society United States being
willing to collaborate with and
congratulate costco for the slightly
better conditions they've given their
their chickens before they cut their
heads off and the hard
no vegan political position of no it's
still wrong it's still bad it's still
evil and in a sense your version of evil
is worse it's more dangerous it's more
despicable because you're pretending
it's humane you've taken something evil
and you've added onto the surface of it
a myth of humanitarian sympathy you've
you've made it worse because you can
decode it it I wanted this video to be
relatively brief so I'm not going to get
into that in any great depth but I think
that's also even what I've just said
there's this bizarre irony within
veganism because the abolitionist
position doesn't want to admit that
there are differences there are degrees
of different shades of grey there's
better and worse morally that it you
know a chicken is better off if it's
free range as opposed to living in a
cage is that I person I don't feel
that's a problem for veganism I think
you can take an absolute moral position
that eating meat is wrong and you can
also recognize that a bird that's able
to walk around is less oppressed is less
miserable is in less physical agony than
a bird that's literally has to live its
whole life in a cage the size of a
shoebox and can't actually spread its
wings I don't feel there's a conflict
there some vegans do but i think the
other sense that's interesting have just
mentioned in which there's a moral
distinction maybe makes people
uncomfortable it's talking about the
fact that it is actually ethically worse
to be murdering these animals to be
forcing them to live their whole lives
in confinement and then die so they can
decorate your dinner plate and to do so
with this humanitarian myth on top that
I should makes it morally worse but you
know I was reminded talked about this
with one of my teachers here in Chinese
recently but I said you know on some
level we all relate to the the moral
issue there because you know if two
boxers get into a ring they don't hate
each other that I name it's just a
boxing match just competition two boxes
getting the ring one of them might die
it happens every so often you know
boxers get brain injuries so they get
their face caved in look at their nose
caved in somehow they get concussion and
actually died after the boxing match in
hospital it does happen
if that happens mean in a sense it's
murder in a sense it's you know it's
just an accident but everyone
acknowledges you know what these were
two adult men possibly adult women they
stepped into a boxing ring they can send
it to this there are equals there
roughly the same height the roughly the
same weight it's a fair fight it's a
boxing match there's a sense of fair
play there we can accept the
consequences of life and death but
nobody would accept it if a grown man
got into the boxing ring with a child
with a defenseless child and that same
sense of justice and injustice that's so
fundamental to the human spirit frankly
it's there also with these animals you
know what if this was going on with a
human being fighting for survival
against a bear that's different from the
way we're treating chickens because
chickens are exactly in that position
like the child in the boxing ring
there's no sense of fair play so to put
a humanitarian veneer on top of that
really does make it worse you know um
violence can be justified in so many
ways and simply the logic of the boxing
match the logic of the Equality of the
competitors of the logic of self-defense
when you're attacked by a bear we're
dealing with something that is so
fundamentally evil in taking a chicken
out of its natural habitat in breeding
it in modifying its body in depriving it
of anything like an experience of its
natural habitat in domesticating it in
breaking its spirit and forcing it to
live and die indoors they'll see in the
sky and again to produce food that is
unnecessary and unhealthy etc many
ironies to it and meanwhile nobody even
tries to argue that a boxing match is
humane nobody's looking to make these
excuses nobody's looking to candy-coat
it right because we don't need to make
the excuse there isn't that fundamental
injustice there so yes there are strange
degrees of difference there are shades
of gray
there are questions of better and worse
yes in the treatment of chickens and in
the excuses we make for it and on an
unspoken level that I think even meat
eaters are aware of there is this
difference between a bird that's managed
to live its whole life in the forest
spreading its wing as exercising its
nature and a bird that's been not only
killed but deprived of the opportunity
to have anything like a life before it
dies through this you know depraved
industry that we have invented
and that we now you know try to flatter
with these meaningless catch phrases
like free range